The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation 
of Atlanta's recent primary election produced "no evidence" that 
any irregularities took place.   The jury further said in term-end 
presentments that the City Executive Committee, which had over-all 
charge of the election, "deserves the praise and thanks of the 
City of Atlanta" for the manner in which the election was conducted.

The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton 
Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible 
"irregularities" in the hard-fought primary which was won by 
Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr&.   "Only a relative handful 
of such reports was received", the jury said, "considering the 
widespread interest in the election, the number of voters and the size 
of this city".   The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's 
registration and election laws "are outmoded or inadequate 
and often ambiguous".   It recommended that Fulton legislators 
act "to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing 
and improving them".   The grand jury commented on a number 
of other topics, among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing 
departments which it said "are well operated and follow generally 
accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments". 

"Not in the largest sense of the words", I said. 
"The other day Arnold Toynbee spoke against the inveterate tendency 
of our species to believe in the uniqueness of its religions, its 
ideologies, and its virtually everything else. Why do we not realize 
that no ideology believes so much in itself as it disbelieves in something 
else? Forty years ago an English writer, W& L& George, 
dealt with this subject in <Eddies of the Day,> and said, as an example, 
that 'Saint George for Merry England' would not start 
a spirit half so quickly as 'Strike frog-eating Frenchmen dead'"!

"There was also <Gott strafe Angleterre",> Moreland 
reminded me, "and <Carthago delenda est,> or if you will, <Deus 
strafe Carthage>. It isn't what the ideologist believes in, 
but what he hates, that puts the world in jeopardy. This is the force, 
in our time and in every other time, that urges the paranoiac and the 
manic-depressive to become head of a state. Complete power not only 
corrupts but it also attracts the mad. There is a bitter satire for 
a future writer in that".   "Great satire has always been clearly 
written and readily understandable", I said. "But we now 
find writers obsessed by the nooks and crannies of their ivory towers, 
and curiously devoted to the growing obscurity and complexity of poetry 
and non-poetry. I wrote a few years ago that one of the cardinal rules 
of writing is that the reader should be able to get some idea of 
what the story is about.

One day, the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside's 
horse. They wanted to see what his back felt like- the General's. 
He looked so comfortable being straight. They wanted to touch 
the mystery. Arlene was boosting them up when the policeman came 
by.   He was very rude.   Arlene had a hard voice, too, this 
time. The policeman's eyes rather popped for a second; but then 
Arlene got another tone in a hurry, and she said, "If it wasn't 
for these dear children"-.   The policeman got a confused, 
funny look on his face, and he had answered kind of politely, "Now, 
look here, lady: I know you got to entertain these kids and all. 
But this is a public park and it's a city ordinance that the statues 
cannot be crawled on".   Arlene was so ashamed that she hung 
her head when she said, "Yes, sir".   The policeman walked 
on, but he looked back once.   That had happened on the day when 
two 
other unusual things had occurred. Arlene had taught them a new way 
to have fun in their little private area; and they had told their 
mother about the tumbles. In matters of exact information, that kept 
her one step behind developments; and so they were consistently true 
to their principles.   "Never mind", Arlene had said, after 
the policeman had left, having pursued the usual unco-operative course 
of grownups. "Never mind. I know something that is much more fun 
that we can do on our little lawn".   "What is it"? asked 
the children, whose reflexes and replies were invariably so admirably 
normal and predictable. Maybe that was why they were cordial and 
loyal towards the unpredictability of Arlene.   "Just you wait", 
advised Arlene, echoing the dialogue in a recent British movie.

And when they had got to their little lawn, they had had a most 
twirlingly magnificent time. First, Arlene had put them through 
some rapid somersaults. They had protested that <that> wasn't any 
surprise.   "Just you wait", said Arlene again, as though 
she were discovering the pleasantly tingling insinuations of that handy 
little sturdy statement. "This is a warm-up".   "Is it 
anything like cooked-over oatmeal"? asked one of the children.

"Not the least bit", Arlene snapped. One of the many things 
that was so nice about her was that she always took your questions seriously, 
particularly your very, very serious questions. Those were 
especially the ones that all other grownups laughed at loudest. She would 
sometimes even get a little hard on you, she took you so seriously. 
But not hard for very long. Just long enough to make you feel important.

"Now", said Arlene, eventually, making them both 
sit in formation on a big root of a live oak, the sort of root that divided 
itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable. "Now, 
we're going to be like what General Burnside and his horse make 
us think of".   The children looked at each other and 
sagged their bottoms down even more comfortably than ever. Their curiosity 
went happily out of bounds.   Then, Arlene threw herself 
backwards and wiggled in a way that was just wonderful. She held herself 
that way and turned her head towards them and laughed and winked. 
"Imagine being able to laugh and wink when you're like the top part 
of that picture frame at home", one of them said. They both laughed 
and winked back.   "I'm General Burnside's horse, upside 
down", Arlene said, sort of gaspingly, for her: even she had 
to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position. She made General 
Burnside's horse's belly do so funny when it was upside down. 
Then, she was back on her feet, winking and smiling that enormous 
smile (she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would have suspected 
she had when she was not smiling). And she would wink and throw 
kisses. They both tried to keep smiling and winking for a long time, 
but it made <their> lips and eyelids tremble. But they kept on 
clapping for a long, long time.   "This time", Arlene said, 
and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking, 
"<you're> going to tell me what I am and what I'm doing. It 
all has something to do with General Burnside and his horse".

This time, it was so grand; they could tell exactly what it was. 
It was General Burnside's horse running in a circle. His legs 
shook, and the shaking went right on up his body through his hips to 
his shoulders. "That's the General's horse", one of them cried 
out.   The other remarked, in a happy laughter, "That's 
a funny old horse".   The first one said, "He sure does shake. 
<He's old>".   Then there was the General kissing his 
wife. They had to be told that one. But it was even funnier after 
they had been told. Their father, when he came back from those many 
business trips, just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips 
and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in 
the electric icebox. But not General Burnside. He was the funniest 
man. He never could keep still, even when he didn't move his feet.

Then, <they> had to get up and be General Burnside. Or his 
horse. All they could think of was to run around in circles, kicking 
their legs out. It wasn't very funny. Then, they said General 
Burnside was going to jump over his horse's head; and they did some 
somersaults. But that wasn't very funny, either.   "You 
ought to shake", Arlene advised them. And Arlene showed them how 
to begin. She also taught them to sing "I wish I could shimmy like 
my sister Kate". That helped a lot. They were clumsy, but they 
were beginning to catch on. They also caught on a little bit on how to 
smile a lot without your lips trembling. "Imagine you won't get 
your allowance if you're caught not smiling- or smiling with your 
lips trembling too much", Arlene suggested.   That helped a 
great deal. ##

They were a little late in getting home.   "I'm 
sorry, Mrs& Minks", Arlene said in a tone so low you could 
hardly hear it.   My mother constituted herself the voice 
of all of us. "It's perfectly understandable, Arlene", my mother 
said in a friendly way. "I suppose you all were playing and forgot"?

"Yes, ma'am", the children chorused heartily.

We couldn't help laughing.   The children rushed off to 
get rid of their sweaters; and Arlene began tapping the kitchen door 
open. "Arlene's a good girl", my uncle remarked to us; but 
he said it too soon, for it came out just before the tap to which the 
door responded. That tap had a slight bangish quality.   "She 
really is a dear little thing", my mother agreed. Her upper lip 
lifted 
slightly. She was biting into a small red radish; and that action 
always caused her to lift her lip from the sting of the thing. Also, 
she lived in continual fear of finding a white worm curled up in 
a neat, mean little heap at the white center of the radish. She would 
try to see over the bulge of her cheeks and somewhat under her teeth 
to the place where she was biting. It never worked, naturally; but 
it made her look unusual. Also, when she had bitten off half of the small 
radish, she found the suspense unbearable; and she would snatch 
the finger-held half of the radish out to where she could inspect it. 
One could hear a very faint, ladylike sigh of relief. Actually, it 
was inaudible to anyone not expecting it. But the warm joy of her brown 
eyes was open to the general public.   Later on, the children 
told her further about somersaulting. "It must be <awfully> good 
for them. And <awfully> kind of Arlene", she told us later. "But 
do you know something curious"? she added. "I reached into 
that funny little pocket that is high up on my dress. I have no notion 
why I reached. And I found a <radish>. Was it an omen? I thought 
for a second. But I would not pamper myself in that silly way. 
I opened the window and threw the radish out".   Then, my mother 
blushed at this small lie; for she knew and we knew that it was 
cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible 
a strain. ##

Arlene became indispensable; nobody could have 
told why. But she was. It was in the air.   A friend of my father's 
came to dinner. He was passing through town and phoned to say 
hello. As a result, he was persuaded out to dinner. As a matter of 
fact, this happened every four or five months. Sometimes, he coincided 
with my father's being at home. Sometimes, as at this juncture, he 
did not. But he was always persuaded out.   he liked children, 
in a loathsome kind of way; the two youngest in our family always had 
to be 
brought in and put through tricks for his entertainment. When he 
had left, I could never remember whether he had poked them in their 
middles, laughingly, with a thick index finger or whether he was merely 
so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action, 
not bothering to look. The children loathed him, too.   This evening, 
they were pushed in from the breakfast room, with odds and ends 
of dessert distributed over them. There had been some coconut in it, 
for I remember my mother's taking a quick glance at a stringy bit 
of this nut on the cheek of one of them and then putting down her radish 
with a shiver.   They were pushed gently into the room by Arlene- 
whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back 
around to the kitchen side of the door. We had just sat down. 
"Tell Mr& Gorboduc what you're doing these days", my mother 
advised the children, ceremonially.   There was an air of revolt 
about the children- even irreverence for their own principles. This 
could be told chiefly from a sort of head-tossing and prancing, a 
horselike balkiness of demeanor. Possibly, the coconut-containing dessert 
had brought up bitter problems of administration. But, at the beginning, 
this stayed just in the air.   "We go to the park with 
this nice lady", one of them said. "We have good times".

This happy bulletin convulsed Mr& Gorboduc. "You <do>"? 
he asked, between wheezes of laughter. He was forced to wipe his eyes. 
"You don't step on the flowers, do you? Eh"?   One 
of the children maneuvered out of range of the poking index finger.

"No", he said. "We don't".   Mr& Gorboduc 
took a swig of his sherry. He was so long thinking that my mother had 
time to inspect her sherry for dregs. Usually, this was done when 
attention was diverted by someone else's long, boring story. But this 
time she was nervous: she was open.   Mr& Gorboduc was finally 
in command of his mind again. "Tell me- what do you do at 
the park"? he asked. This was delivered in a forthright way, without 
coyness and over-pretended interest- an admirable way with children. 
Only, unfortunately, he could not remove from his voice a nagging 
insinuation of the direct command. This nettled the children into the 
revelation of exact truth, a sacrifice of their secret superiority 
over grown people, but a victory in the wide fields of perpetration and 
illegitimate accomplishment.   "We bump", one said; and 
the other went on to development of the idea. "We grind, too", he 
said.   My mother was beside herself with curiosity. "Say that 
again", she pleaded. She laughed a little and tossed the dregs rakishly 
around in her glass. "You what"? She could see that Mr& 
Gorboduc was intrigued; the hostess in her took over. She was 
rollickingly happy. "You what"?   My uncle looked at Mr& 
Gorboduc. He read Henry James and used to pretend profundity 
through eye-beamings at people.   Mr& Gorboduc looked down. He 
would not look up. He was very funny about the whole thing. 
#@#

{PUERI AQUAM DE SILVAS AD AGRICOLAS PORTANT}, a delightful 
vignette set in the unforgettable epoch of pre-Punic War Rome. 
Marcellus, the hero, is beset from all sides by the problems of 
approaching manhood. The story opens on the eve of his fifty-third birthday, 
as he prepares for the two weeks of festivities that are to follow. 
Suddenly, a messenger arrives and, just before collapsing dead 
at his feet, informs him that the Saracens have invaded Silesia, the 
home province of his affianced. He at once cancels the celebrations 
and, buckling on his scimitar, stumbles blindly from the house, where 
he is hit and killed by a passing oxcart. #@#

{THE ALBANY CIVIC 
OPERA's} presentation of Spumoni's immortal <Il Sevigli 
del Spegititgninino>, with guest contralto Hattie Sforzt. An 
unusual, if not extraordinary, rendering of the classic myth that involves 
the rescue of Prometheus from the rock by the U&S& Cavalry 
was given last week in the warehouse of the Albany Leather Conduit 
Company amid cheers of "Hubba hubba" and "Yalagaloo pip pip"!

After a "busy" overture, the curtain rises on a farm 
scene- the Ranavan Valley in northern Maine. A dead armadillo, 
the sole occupant of the stage, symbolizes the crisis and destruction 
of the Old Order. Old Order, acted and atonally sung by Grunnfeu 
Arapacis, the lovely Serbantian import, then entered and delivered 
the well-known invocation to the god Phineoppus, whereupon the stage 
is quite unexpectedly visited by a company of wandering Gorshek priests, 
symbolizing Love, Lust, Prudence and General Motors, respectively. 
According to the myth, Old Order then vanishes at stage left 
and reappears at extreme stage right, but director Shuz skillfully sidesteps 
the rather gooshey problem of stage effects by simply having 
Miss Arapacis walk across the stage. The night <we> saw it, a rather 
unpleasant situation arose when the soloist refused to approach the 
armadillo, complaining- in ad-lib- that "it smelled". We caught 
the early train to New York. #@#

{THE DHARMA DICTIONARY}, 
a list of highly unusual terms used in connection with Eurasian 
proto-senility cults. It's somewhat off the beaten track, to 
be sure, but therein lies its variety and charm. For example, probably 
very few people know that the word "visrhanik" that is bantered 
about so much today stems from the verb "bouanahsha": to salivate. 
Likewise, and equally fascinating, is the news that such unlikely 
synonyms as "pratakku", "sweathruna", and the tongue-twister 
"nnuolapertar-it-vuh-karti-biri-pitknoumen" 
all originated in the same 
village in Bathar-on-Walli 
Province and are all used to express 
sentiments concerning British "imperialism". The terms are fairly 
safe to use on this side of the ocean, but before you start spouting 
them to your date, it might be best to find out if he was a member of 
Major Pockmanster's Delhi Regiment, since resentment toward the 
natives was reportedly very high in that outfit. #@#

{THE 
BREEZE AND CHANCELLOR NEITZBOHR}, a movie melodrama that concerns 
the attempts of a West German politician to woo a plaster cast of 
the Apollo Belvedere. As you have doubtless guessed already, the plot 
is plastered with Freudian, Jungian, and Meinckian theory. For 
example, when the film is only four minutes old, Neitzbohr refers to 
a small, Victorian piano stool as "Wilhelmina", and we are thereupon 
subjected to a flashback that informs us that this very piano stool 
was once used by an epileptic governess whose name, of course, was 
Doris (the English equivalent, when passed through middle-Gaelic derivations, 
of Wilhelmina). For the remainder of the movie, Chancellor 
Neitzbohr proceeds to lash the piano stool with a slat from a Venetian 
blind that used to hang in the pre-war Reichstag. In this manner, 
he seeks to expunge from his own soul the guilt pangs caused by his 
personal assaults against the English at Dunkirk. As we find out 
at the end, it is not the stool (symbolizing Doris, therefore the English) 
that he is punishing but the piece of Venetian blind. And, when 
the slat finally shatters, we see him count the fragments, all the 
while muttering, "He loves me, he loves me not". After a few tortuous 
moments of wondering who "he" is, the camera pans across the 
room to the plaster statue, and we realize that Neitzbohr is trying 
to redeem himself in the eyes of a mute piece of sculpture. The effect, 
needless to say, is almost terrifying, and though at times a bit obscure, 
the film is certainly a much-needed catharsis for the "repressed" 
movie-goer. #@#

{THE MUSIC OF BINI SALFININISTAS, 
CAPITAL ~LP @63711-R}, one of the rare recordings of this 
titanic, 
yet unsung, composer. Those persons who were lucky enough to see 
and hear the performance of his work at the Brest-Silevniov Festival 
in August, 1916, will certainly welcome his return to public notice; 
and it is not unlikely that, even as the great Bach lay dormant 
for so many years, so has the erudite, ingenious SalFininistas passed 
through his "purgatory" of neglect. But now, under th. Eight or ten years ago, a couple of French hoods stole a priceless 
